# hemato_AVC
The code used for the manuscript entitled "Genomic evidence of Escherichia coli gut population diversity translocation in leukemia patients" are available in this repository.

Abstract
Escherichia coli, a commensal species of the human gut, is an opportunistic pathogen which can reach extra-intestinal compartments, including the bloodstream and the bladder, among others. In non-immunosuppressed patients, purifying or neutral evolution of E. coli populations has been reported in the gut. Conversely, it has been suggested that when migrating to extra-intestinal compartments, E. coli genomes undergo diversifying selection as supported by strong evidence for adaptation. The level of genomic polymorphism and the size of the populations translocating from gut to extra-intestinal compartments is largely unknown. 
To gain insights in the pathophysiology of these translocations, we investigated the level of polymorphism and the evolutionary forces acting on the genomes of 77 E. coli isolated from various compartments in three immunosuppressed patients. Each patient had a unique strain which was a mutator in one case. In all instances, we observed that translocation encompasses the majority of the genomic diversity present in the gut. The same signature of selection, whether purifying or diversifying, and as anticipated, neutral for mutator isolates, was observed in both the gut and bloodstream. Additionally, we found a limited number of non-specific mutations among compartments for non-mutator isolates. In all cases, urine isolates were dominated by neutral selection. These findings indicate that substantial proportions of populations are undergoing translocation and that they present a complex compartment-specific pattern of selection at the patient level.


